10000|Bare fighting is the skill of fighting without armor, and the skill of moving one's body to get out of harm's way or roll with impacts. While this skill can be used regardless of protection or attire, it works best when one is free to move.\n\nWithout this skill, it costs twice as much to dodge, dive, or roll.
10001|Hide armor is the skill of protecting yourself with armor made from biological sources, such as cloth, leather, wood, or bone. These armors are typically highly available and relatively easy to replace, and run a variety of flexibility and effectiveness. They are, however, relatively easy to damage and tend to not last through enduring use.\n\nWithout this skill, you may still wear hide armor, but will struggle to benefit from its protection and will tend to see the armor ruined more quickly.
10002|Maille armor is the skill of protecting yourself with armor made from metal meshes or composites, such as maille, ring armor, and scale armor. These armors are extremely durable, relatively easy to make, and provide rather good protection, but they tend to be heavy and restrict movement more than other kinds of armor.\n\nWithout this skill, you may still wear maille armor, but will find it more expensive to take physical actions.
10003|Armor harness is the skill of protecting yourself with armor made from layers of plates which fasten to a harness worn under them, such as plate, splinted, and segmented armors. These armors provide excellent protection on the field and their precise placement and distribution makes them easier to move in than most maille, but they're expensive, hard to make, and difficult to maintain.\n\nWithout this skill, you may still wear armor harnesses, but may not use Bare Fighting or any survival skills while doing so.
10004|Boxing is the skill of inflicting injury with one's bare hands, including the skill of grapples, holds, throws, and kicks. This style of fighting is far more versatile than a weapon-based fighting style, allowing strikes to be made from positions that wouldn't allow the same with a weapon. However, attacks made without the mechanical advantage of a weapon are reliably less harmful than  those from an armed fighter of equal skill.\n\nWithout this skill, you may still fight unarmed, but can't perform any throws and may not use kicks.
10005|Dagger is the skill of using short nimble blades in fights, including pronged and spiked solution for light one-handed weapons. These weapons tend to not inflict very much harm on strikes, but are easy to use and fairly versatile, often doubling as tools.\n\nWithout this skill, you can still fight with daggers, but can only use then when standing.
10006|Sword is the skill of using long blades, including both one and two-handed versions of the weapons. These weapons tend to respond well to high levels of skill, being capable of making many different kinds of attacks. The skilled swordsman has the right strike for almost any foe, but finds the weapon large and difficult to use in cramped quarters.\n\nWithout this skill, you may only make basic strikes with swords and may only use one-handed weapons, but must wield them in two hands.
10007|Axe is the skill of using hafted, chopping-focused, bladed weapons, including battleaxes and glaives. These weapons are brutally powerful and heavy-hitting, but are slow and lack versatility. Strikes which are not direct swings tend to be relatively ineffective.\n\nWithout this skill, axe attacks are more expensive and you may only use one-handed weapons, but must wield them in two hands.
10008|Mace is the skill of using hafted, end-weighted, blunt weapons, such as hammers, maces and clubs. These weapons are incredibly available, and can be improvised in almost any setting, and the formal and refined makes of the weapons are good at countering armor. However, they tend to be slow and predictable in fights.\n\nWithout this skill, you may not use two-handed wepaons and must use one-handed weapons in two.
10009|Spear is the skill of using hafted thrusting weapons, such as spears and most polearms. Spears have the advantage of superior reach and can be used in ranks with relative ease, but they are very directional and vulnerable to flanking.\n\nWithout this skill, you may not use long spears and must use two hands to wield normal spears.
10010|Staff is the skill of using long, balanced, hafted weapons, such as the quarterstaff. Staves are relatively cheap and available, can be used by almost anyone, and can be used in many circumstances, but they are not very damaging weapons, and it tends to take many attacks to defeat opponents with one.\n\nThere is no special penalty to the absence of this skill, though absence of skill makes the unskilled staff fighter less effective.
10011|Bow is the skill of using projectile weapons which function by bending some kind of shaft to store energy, which will throw the projectile at a target. Both shelfed weapons, such as the crossbow, and non-shelfed weapons, such as the recurve bow, are covered, with much of the skill being the understanding of how low-speed projectiles like arrows travel. These weapons have the advantage of range and being able to be made from many materials, though making effective bows requires a relatively high quantity of craftsmanship.\n\nWithout this skill, penalties for range when firing a bow are doubled.
10012|Throwing is the skill of using throwing weapons, such as javelins, or throw-enhancing weapons, such as slings, atlatl, or amentum. Throwing weapons tend to be easy to acquire and easy to use, and can manage at melee range better than other primarily-ranged weapons. They, however, tend to seriously lack range, and tend to not be very effective at ranges farther than a charge.\n\nWithout this skill, you suffer double range penalties from throw-enhancing weapons.
10013|Shield is the skill of using disks or planks on the off hand during fights, typically primarily defensively, but rarely exclusively so. Shields tend to make reasonable striking weapons and are better at blocking than attack-oriented weaponry, though they can be unbalancing and make using two-handed weapons incredibly difficult, if not impossible.\n\nWithout this skill, you gain no attack benefit from using a shield.
10014|Firearms is the skill of using projectile weapons which function by releasing chemical energy and using it to propel a projectile toward a target. These weapons are very powerful, but are unreliable and both difficult and expensive to make or fire.\n\nWithout this skill, you may not load a firearm.
10015|Smithing is the skill of shaping and treating metal to useful shapes. Most smiths take on the specialized tools and techniques for a specific kind of metal or a particular kind of product, and are called by that specific trait, though the skill gives access to all of those trades, provided the crafter can muster the capital investment.\n\nWithout this skill, you can only craft the simplest materials of this type.
10016|Leatherworking is the skill of turning animal skins into useful results, typically different kinds of clothing, armor, or shelter.\n\nWithout this skill, you can only craft the simplest materials of this type.
10017|Tailoring is the skill of producing and working with all variety of textiles, typically to produce clothing or shelter, though sometimes to produce lightweight armor.\n\nWithout this skill, you can only craft the simplest materials of this type.
10018|Butchery is the skill of breaking down the bodies of slain creatures into useful parts. Though this typically doesn't result in immediately-useful products, it does provide products for other crafters to use-- such as furs, skins, bones, or meat.\n\nWithout this skill, there is exceptional risk of tainting or damaging the parts to be harvested.
10019|Masonry is the skill of working with stone and materials that attempt to emulate it, like bricks. Typically, these skills are used to produce shelter or fortification, though occasionally produces objects of art or simple utility.\n\nWithout this skill, you can only craft the simplest materials of this type.
10020|Carpentry is the skill of working with wood. Wood is used for a wide variety of projects and products, though tends to be understood as a more-temporary solution than objects made from other materials.\n\nWithout this skill, you can only craft the simplest materials of this type.
10021|Painting is the skill of applying artistic color to other things. Though low or unskilled painters can also use this to apply uninteresting protective coatings to things, highly-skilled painters are typically interested in art and esthetics.\n\nWithout this skill, you can only paint to put protective coats on objects. Artistic attempts will tend to be sloppy and indecipherable.
10022|Writing is the skill of producing clear and readable-- or, at high skills, attractive-- writing. Writers also work with the manipulation of language, and this skill also covers the drafting of formal documents like treaties or contracts.\n\nWithout this skill, you can only write for basic communication, and generally won't produce effective official documents.
10023|Locksmithing is the skill of combining various materials into mechanisms that restrict access to openings. Locks that work with keys can also be picked with this skill.\n\nWithout this skill, you can only produce the simplest mechanical locks, such as bars on doors.
10024|Music is the skill of producing and composing sounds in an esthetic way. Though most musicians specialise in a particular kind of music, the skill extends to all sorts of music.\n\nWithout this skill, you can play only simple music, which most people will not find particularly entertaining.
10025|Agriculture is the skill of growing and processing plants into a useful state.\n\nWithout this skill, attempts at agriculture take on a very small volume, and typically doesn't produce any more food than the simplest sustenance.
10026|Cooking is the skill of turning processed editble goods into nutritious and enjoyable meals.\n\nWithout this skill, you can only produce simple meals that aren't very enjoyable to the people who eat them.
10027|Appraisal is the skill of determining how much a given object is worth at market. The skill is a very shallow and wide knowledge, and can often be used to scrounge up a vague sense of things generally, such as what objects are used for.\n\nWithout this skill, you can't effectively haggle and rarely know the monetary value of your possessions.
10028|Focus is the skill of ignoring distractions, used to accelerate study or to manage complex tasks in taxing circumstances.\n\nWithout this skill, you need a space of relative calm to take on primarily-mental tasks.
10029|Ciphers is the skill of placing information into codes and getting information out of the results of the encoding. Though this is obviously easier when one knows how the information was encoded, particularly-skilled people can decipher information that is supposed to be secret to them.\n\nWithout this skill, you can only decipher information with instructions, and risk failure in that circumstance.
10030|Medicine is the skill of providing care to living things, treating many kinds of injury or illness with both physical and medicinal methods, and providing the knowledge to accurately diagnose the problems which would require them.\n\nWithout this skill, most illness and injury is extremely dangerous to treat, and will often harm the patient more than help them.
10031|Magic is the skill of understanding the behavior of magical energies, and thus the behavior of physical energies. While this doesn't provide any magical skill itself, it's still valuable to those who use them, as it provides them with understanding of what they're doing, and is generally in demand to explain natural and magical phenomina.\n\nWithout this skill, magic is entirely a mystery, and physical phenomina are only understood in the simplest ways.
10032|Architecture is the skill of designing structures to hold up to particular uses, often specifically toward constructing buildings for living or public use.\n\nWithout this skill, you can only design the simplest structures, and cannot expect to build anything more complex than a sod hut without help from an architect.
10033|Geography is the skill of understanding the land, and the skill of understanding what it contains. This skill is used to determine where resources are and how the land will behave in different circumstance.\n\nWithout this skill, you only have knowledge of the land that can be directly observed, and won't be able to pick good places for large building projects or find resource-rich territory.
10034|History is the skill of understanding past events, and thus a small quantity of all knowledges. It is the common background for those who seek political work, and comes with a base understanding of cultures.\n\nThere is no specialized penalty for the lack of this skill, though much information will lack connection without it.
10035|Navigation is the skill of finding your way in all sorts of settings, including an understanding of landmarks, identifying directions by various signs, knowledge of using stars and charts to get around. Typically, navigators work on ships, where roads aren't present to help guide the way, but their skills can be set to work in unsettled land as well.\n\nWithout this skill, you have a much higher risk of becoming disoriented in the wild, and losing sense of which direction is which.
10036|Religion is the skill of understanding religion and churches. In the vast majority of the world, this skill is also knowledge of law and social structure, as almost every state is either run by or effectively run by the most powerful church inside it.\n\nWithout this skill, religion is a vague association of concepts with names, and enough knowledge to participate in the rites and rituals that one performs.
10037|Botany is the skill of understanding and identifying plant life. While this is kept distinct from the actual cultivation of plants, in agriculture, it can be used to determine uses of specific plants.\n\nWithout this skill, you can only identify plants that you work with regularly.
10038|Balance is the skill of keeping upright on narrow or unstable ground, or against resistance.\n\nThere is no special penalty for not having this skill, except that falling over is reliably a bad thing to do.
10039|Climb is the skill of moving up or down slopes that are too steep to walk along, or to more-quickly take on less-steep slopes than untrained people would.\n\nWithout this skill, climbs are more expensive.
10040|Jump is the skill of jumping, either to cover some vertical distance or to clear a horizontal chasm.\n\nWithout this skill, you have very little ability to jump, and generally can't clear distances any greater than walking or climbing.
10041|Prowl is the skill of using stealth and cover to shield yourself from view or ranged attack. It isn't particularly helpful without a source of cover, but can be quite powerful in reasonably-complex terrain.\n\nWithout this skill, you lose a significant portion of your field of vision from sneaking.
10042|Swim is the skill of moving through water without drowning.\n\nCharacters without this skill don't know how to swim. They may only wade through shallow water and try to keep afloat with a standard drowning reflex.
10043|Forage is the skill of gathering food and potable water from your surroundings. This can be applied in both urban and wilderness settings, though the former implies a certain lack of shame in personal presentation.\n\nWithout this skill, foraging is risky, and contains a chance of gathering something poisonous among the other things found.
10044|Shelter is the skill of quickly constructing a place that is an adequate setting for sleep, which can be deconstructed quickly.\n\nWithout this skill, you need to pack a tent or find a pre-existing shelter to sleep with shelter.
10045|Track is the skill of identifying the passage of creatures through a region, usually with success influenced heavily by the sort of traffic in the area and how recently it passed.\n\nWithout this skill, you cannot track and must use other methods to find things or people.
10046|Perceive is the skill of parsing incoming information into useful bits, commonly used to take notice of hidden and deceptive things.\n\nCharacters without this skill take no special penalty, beyond the inability to notice things as implied by low skills.
10047|Improvise is the skill of using your surroundings to get hold of temporary tools and weapons. While these items are fairly ineffective for their purpose, they are often seen as better than nothing.\n\nWithout this skill, improvised items carry double the usual penalties.
10048|Argue is the skill of convincing people of an opinion through logic and persuasion.\n\nWithout this skill, argument tends to be contentious and often devolves to squabbling.
10049|Deceive is the skill of convincing people that statements which you know to be untrue are, in fact, true.\n\nWithout this skill, your deceptions are transparent and can be easily identified by people without any training.
10050|Demoralize is the skill of creating situations and environments which sap the morale of the people subjected to it. At higher levels of skill, this includes strategies of psychological warfare.\n\nWithout this skill, efforts of the sort have to be targeted at individuals and can only get wide influence indirectly.
10051|Disguise is the skill of making oneself, one's movements, or one's possessions appear to be things other than what they are.\n\nWithout this skill, disguises are simple and can only prevent identification, though they can't hide the fact that they're disguises.
10052|Frighten is the skill of intimidating others, making them more likely to respond in a fight-or-flight response.\n\nWithout this skill, efforts to intimidate have to be directed at individuals, and have a greater risk of emboldening opponents.
10053|Instigate is the skill of picking fights, causing people to be riled to action and lose their sense of rationality.\n\nWithout this skill, the required insults sound childish and pitiful, only goading action out of the most hotheaded.
10054|Rally is the skill of improving morale and encouraging people to follow you. This can often be done to prepare allies to fight, but can also be done to counter the negative influences of instigate or frighten skills.\n\nWithout this skill, people are unlikely to follow you, and you only get realistic chances of success with friends and family.
10055|Read is the skill of situational awareness in a social context, making sense of current interactions and motivations, and is especially keen to identify those who work for secondary motives or mean you harm.\n\nWithout this skill, only fairly-obvious moves made by others are visible to you.
10056|Rumor is the skill of gathering information from and providing information to the complex network of hearsay in a society. With high skill and combined with deceive, this can also be used to spread misinformation as plausible rumor.\n\nWithout this skill, you've very little ability to distinguish information from prattle among rumors, and can't use rumor to intentionally distribute information.
10057|Language is the skill of speaking a variety of languages, and the eloquence with which the languages are spoken.\n\nWithout this skill, you struggle to acquire new languages.
10058|Personal Energy is the skill of harvesting energy from within one's own body for use in supernatural effects. Unlike the other skills of the sort, this cannot be used to provide energy back to one's body.\n\nWithout this skill, energy is extremely difficult to harvest and often ends with the immediate loss of control of harvested energy.
10059|Kinetic Energy is the skill of converting energy to motion and work.\n\nWithout this skill, such conversions are gross, imprecise, and wasteful.
10060|Thermal Energy is the skill of harvesting energy from heat sources and converting otherwise-harvested energy into heat.\n\nWithout this skill, energy is extremely difficult to harvest and often ends with the immediate loss of control of harvested energy.
10061|Alchemical Energy is the skill of harvesting energy housed in volatile or reative materials, or in investing energy to shift materials into things they could be reacted to.\n\nWithout this skill, energy is rarely successfully harvested from substances, and constructed substance is rarely made in observable quantity.
10062|Electrical Energy is the skill of harvesting energy from electricity, or converting harvested energy into electricity. Implied by this skill is also a limited control over magnetism, though it is usually second to kinetic energy in such applications.\n\nWithout this skill, attempts to manipulate eletricity typically result in getting shocked.
10063|Material Energy is the skill of harvesting energy from the essence of material itself, or converting energy to materials.\n\nWithout this skill, attempting to manipulate this sort of energy is extremely hazardous, and often results in Godtouched illness.
10064|Luminous Energy is the skill of harvesting energy from light, or converting existing energy into light.\n\nWithout this skill, manipulating light energy typically results in severe waste, and often causes Godtouched illness.
10065|Time Energy is the skill of manipulating weight and time from specific references. This skill may never be used to harvest energy.\n\nWithout this skill, manipulations are extremely wasteful and frequently fail.

10100|Combat skills are the skills of conventional fighting, centered on protecting oneself from harm and inflicting harm on others.
10101|Artisan skills are the skills of crafting and creation, and represent the ability to turn raw materials into finished goods of various sorts.
10102|Scholarship skills are skills that are dominated by mental work and knowledge. While they also manifest clear abilities of tangible benefit, they function primarily through information rather than art.
10103|Survival skills are the skills that all of the races of men develop naturally, which help them in the most basic tasks of hunting and gathering. They are primal abilities based largely on getting around, finding things, and making do.
10104|Social skills are the skills of interacting with other people with a purpose.
10105|Supernatural skills are the skills that are used to manipulate energy for magical effect. Though they don't represent any of the skills necessary for purposeful application of that energy.

10900|Strength is the ability score of physical power, determining how much physical force the character can exert on other things with their own bodies.
10901|Agility is the ability score of physical precision, determining the  accuracy and poise of physical maneuvers and the character's ability to handle fine objects.
10902|Endurance is the ability score of physical resilience, determining the ability of the character to maintain physical exertion over long periods of time.
10903|Perception is the ability score of awareness and mental presence, determining how likely the character is to derive useful information from their senses.
10904|Quickness is the ability score of speedy thinking and reaction time, determining how long it takes a character to work through mental exercises, though not the complexity of those exercises.
10905|Memory is the ability score of mental retention, determining how well the character is able to hold onto information that they've come across and reference it later.
10906|Persuasion is the ability score of social efficacy, determining ability to speak and posture oneself to the intentional affect of others.
10907|Glibness is the ability score of social grace, determining ability to control topics and operate with relative social ease.
10908|Appearance is the ability score of physical appearance, determining how attractive others find the character and how well the superficial can be used to overcome social foibles.
10909|Force is the ability score of magical power, determining how much energy can be manipulated and how rapidly it can be gathered.
10910|Control is the ability score of magical direction, determining how well magical abilities can be aimed and how capable the character is at recovering from magical failure.
10911|Discipline is the ability score of magical fortitude, determining how well the character can shield him or herself from purely-magical effects and how long magical tasks can be maintained.