11000|Accountants are people who make their way through a specialty in finance. They largely monitor and measure monetary issues for an employer, especially businesses and governments, though the skills they develop as accountants typically equip them to handle their own finances with some accuracy.
11001|Actors are people who make their living through their performance in plays. They tend to be very well-traveled people, with deeds spanning from publically-sponsored works and morality plays to the downright bawdy. They typically develop a bad reputation, regardless, as plays are common grounds for prostitutes and pickpockets, who the actors tend to make deals with for their own protection.
11002|Apothecaries are people who make their way through the study and practice of medicine before the modern understanding of chemicals. They typically manipulate and dispense herbal remedies, but they still treat all varieties of maladies as they’re able.
11003|Artisans are craftsmen, who make their way by producing some tangible good: especially one that requires skill to make. They frequently gather into guilds, as a way of protecting and teaching their trade. While they are individually called trivial, they wield significant power as a group, as guilds can often threaten the use or withholding of their trade to put pressure on local rulers.
11004|Artists are people who make their living by producing visually-pleasing works: by painting, sculpting, drawing, or some similar means. They typically develop an eye for detail, and a passion for their work, and successful artists quickly develop connections with high-ranking individuals where ever they work.
11005|Farmers are people who make their living by raising and harvesting some kind of food. They typically rent the land they use, and spend most of their work’s value on paying that rent and maintaining their homes. They are also typically the first to feel lean or bountiful times, because of their proximity to the land.
11006|Fishermen are people who make their living by catching fish. They often become very proficient at moving through water, simply by the frequency with which they do so.
11007|Housewives are people who have spent their lives primarily on the care and raising of a family. Their abilities are thus diverse and difficult to label, though they reliably know how to make food and clothing and have a basic proficiency with maintaining a home.
11008|Hunters are people who make their living by stalking, killing, and minimally processing animals. They are accustomed to moving quietly through perilous terrain, and often move the bodies of animals through the same.
11009|Laborers are people who make their living by doing work which either requires no skill or which can be taught on the job. Typically, this involves working under more-skilled workers, especially in matters of moving materials. Laborers help move supplies on many jobs, dig ditches, and build earthworks. When following armies, they man wagons and help set and break camp. On large projects, they often take the more perilous work.
11010|Merchants are people who make their way through the transport of goods: specifically moving things from where they are common to where they are not. They tend to be opportunists, and willing to hear a deal, though they’re also common targets for various criminals and swindlers, due to the amount of money they carry as part of their professions.
11011|Messengers are people who make their living by carrying information across distances. While the majority of their work is within a city, they move greater distances often enough to become familiar and comfortable with travel.
11012|Midwives are people who specialize in the care of pregnant women and newborn children. Though this specialty typically gives them a very specific clientele, their exposure to people at very stressful and fairly-dangerous times of their lives gives them a strong pragmatic sense when caring for any individual.
11013|Monks and nuns are men and women who have dedicated their lives to a religion or ideal, and both receive the necessary provisions for their survival from and give all of their work and time to an institution representing it. Most are scholars, hoping that the understanding of their ideals will survive to future generations, and few choose to leave their monastery walls.
11014|Musicians are people who make their living by playing music. They vary greatly in success, from playing on street corners to playing in grand auditoriums, typically succeeding and failing by their ability to read and influence crowds and find something people like; though a handful of more-artistic musicians can also succeed by happening to find art in something that’s successful.
11015|Nobles are people who are groomed for positions of leadership from an early age. They are typically well-read individuals who are routinely reminded of coming responsibility, though only a select few of them end up taking on the full promised responsibilities. Many who are passed over go into business or the clergy.
11016|Officers are people who make their living by managing armed groups. They’re seen as vital structure when soldiers are employed by governments, and frequently appear as obvious leaders when soldiers gather as mercenaries.
11017|Panhandlers are people who make their living by simply begging, and relying on the generosity of others passing by. They are frequent victims of crime and violence, simply by virtue of their uncommon vulnerability and the general unlikelihood of their having meaningful connections.
11018|Priests and priestesses are men and women who have dedicated their lives to religion, and have put their efforts toward the maintenance of lay folk. Most simply tend to a congregation, where they serve as healer, therapist, coach, and counselor to those who come to them, and some come to a good deal of political power this way. 
11019|Prostitutes are people who make their living by selling sexual favors. Though skill and pride varies significantly among those who practice the trade, all acknowledge that the trade is a very dangerous one, as it means time spent in private locales with strangers.
11020|Sailors are people who make a living manning a boat. Typically, work that is specifically that of a sailor, as distinct from a fisherman, means that the boat is large and designed for travel on high seas. While skills that come with this vary greatly, sailors tend to be surefooted people, from learning to stand while on floating atop swells.
11021|Scholars are people who have dedicated their lives to the pursuit of knowledge and understanding, though they typically get by with their ability to read and write, and will generally supplement with work as tutors and teachers.
11022|Servants are people who make their living by doing domestic work for the wealthy. Often, this means cooking and cleaning, though at higher ranks these posts begin to involve helping manage the estate and overseeing fairly-skilled work, or acting as personal servants to high-ranking individuals. The environments they work in expose them to many different financial standings in life, and make them comfortable in such settings.
11023|Soldiers are people who make their living off of violence, or through resembling its possibility. Large and successful governments sometimes keep standing armies full of professional soldiers, and they are sometimes used to keep law in especially-troubled times. However, most soldiers are mercenaries, traveling to troubled and unstable lands to sell their fighting, with periods of living off of the take dividing.
11024|Spinster is a catch-all term for women who had hoped to make a life out of having and raising children, but for whatever reason remain unmarried. Many of their skills are difficult to market and they as a group struggle for respect, so many turn to assisting artisans: often by spinning thread. Though the term proper doesn’t apply until she becomes too old to have children, the seeking of gainful employment comes much sooner, and the term slowly becomes used more and more often as she ages.
11025|Surgeons are people who make their way through the practice of surgery as it is known before the advent of anesthesia. Though they are consulted on and treat all varieties of ailment, they specialize in the use of physical intervention to treat malady.
11026|Thieves are people who make their living by taking things which belong to other people. Though they develop a diversity of skills in doing this, most seeming rather shady to people who make a more-honest life, thieves are mostly united in that they eventually have to evade capture, and must make a secret of their lives.
11027|Vagabonds are homeless wanderers, living sometimes off of theft, begging, scavenging, and poaching, though they are united in their habit of not settling in any particular place. They develop a diversity of skills along the way, mostly centered on feeding themselves against adversity.